# Video Surveillance Operations Manager (VSOM)

## Overview
**Cisco Physical Security solutions** provide broad capabilities in video surveillance, IP cameras, electronic access control, and groundbreaking technology that converges voice, data, and physical security in one modular platform. Cisco Physical Security solutions enable customers to use the IP network as an open platform to build more collaborative and integrated physical security systems while preserving their existing investments in analog-based technology.

**Cisco ® Video Surveillance Media Server** is the core component of the Cisco Video SurveillanceZ Manager.
By using the power and advanced capabilities of IP networks, Cisco Video Surveillance Media Server software allows applications, users, cameras, and storage to be added over time. As a result, the software provides unparalleled video surveillance system flexibility and scalability.

![VSOM image] (/posts/files/vsom-camera-lab/assets/images/data_sheet_C78-490677-00-1.jpg)



Useful Terminology
----------------------
**VSOM** - Cisco ® Video Surveillance Operations Manager

**Location Tree** - A representation of the VSOM's file hierachy

**Device Template** - Templates simplify camera configuration by defining the image quality, recording schedule and other attributes used by a set of cameras.

**Job** - Many user actions (such as editing a camera template) trigger a Job that must be completed by the Cisco VSM system. These Jobs are completed in the background so you can continue working on other
tasks while the Job is completed. Although most Jobs are completed quickly, some actions (such as
modifying a camera template) may take longer to complete if they affect a large number of devices.

**Motion Configuration** - The settings that define the amount and type of motion required to trigger a motion detection event.

**Motion Detection Event** - Cameras that support motion detection can trigger actions or record video when motion occurs in the camera’s field of view. For example, a camera pointed at the rear door of a building can record a motion
event if a person walks into the video frame. A motion event can also trigger alert notifications, a
camera’s PTZ controls, or a URL action on a third party system.


What We Will Be Doing
----------------------
In this lab we will be writing [RESTful API](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/671118/what-exactly-is-restful-programming) calls using [Python3](https://www.python.org/) to intereact with the [VSOM](http://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/products/physical-security/video-surveillance-operations-manager-software/index.html) API.

We will use the VSOM API to do the following things

* Retrieve a token for gaining authorized access to the VSOM Server
* Retrieve a list of cameras that are currently connected to the VSOM Server
* Retrieve a location tree
* Create a device template
* Query a job to determine it's status
* Apply a device template to a camera
* Set the motion configuration of a camera
* Tell a camera to begin recording
* Retrieve a snapshot of a recording at a specific time
* Tell a camera to stop recording

***Let's start consuming APIs!***
